\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename 3dviewer_2.info
@settitle 3DViewer version 2.0 june 2024
@c %**end of header

@titlepage
@title 3DViewer_2

@end titlepage

@page

This manual is for 3DViewer (version 2.0 june 2024)

The 3DViewer program:

@itemize @bullet

@item
The program developed in C++ language of C++17 standard using gcc compiler. 

@item
The program code located in the src folder.

@item
The program built with Makefile which contains standard set of targets for GNU-programs: all, install, uninstall, clean, dvi, dist, tests, gcov_report.

@item
The program developed according to the principles of structured programming.

@item
Code follows the Google style.

@item
Full coverage of modules related to model loading and affine transformations with unit-tests.

@item
There is only one model on the screen at a time.

@item
GUI implementation, based on any GUI library with Qt6.

@item
The program is implemented using the MVC pattern, its logic and interface are easily replaceable.

@item
The program can:
@itemize @bullet
@item
Load a wireframe model from an obj file (vertices and surfaces list support only).
@item
Translate the model by a given distance in relation to the X, Y, Z axes.
@item
Rotate the model by a given angle relative to its X, Y, Z axes.
@item
Scale the model.
@end itemize

@item
The graphical user interface contains:
@itemize @bullet
@item
A button to select the model file and a field to output its name.
@item
A visualisation area for the wireframe model.
@item
Buttons and input fields for translating the model.
@item
Buttons and input fields for rotating the model.
@item
Buttons for scaling the model.
@item
Buttons for reloading file and reverting all movements and resizes.
@item
Information about the uploaded model - file name, number of vertices and edges.
@end itemize

@item
The program correctly processes and allows user to view models with details up to 100, 1000, 10,000, 100,000, 1,000,000  vertices without freezing (a freeze is an interface inactivity of more than 0.5 seconds).
@end itemize

@itemize @bullet
@item 
Settings:
@itemize @bullet
@item
The program  allow customizing the type of projection (parallel and central)
@item
The program  allow setting up the type (solid, dashed), color and thickness of the edges, display method (none, circle, square), color and size of the vertices
@item
The program  allow choosing the background color
@item
Settings are saved between program restarts
@end itemize

@item
Record:
@itemize @bullet
@item
The program allow saving the captured (rendered) images as bmp and jpeg files.
@item
The program allow recording small screencasts by a special button - the current custom affine transformation of the loaded object into gif-animation (640x480, 10fps, 5s)
@end itemize

Installation and removal:

@itemize @bullet
You can install the program and remove it by typing "make install" and "make uninstall" commands. Installation directory is ../build. Directory for archives produced by "make dist" command is also ../build.

@end itemize

Developers:

@itemize @bullet
Wartzkay
Waresher
Dimpleka
Copyright @copyright{} 2024


@end itemize

@bye

